understand how signature based antivirus work first
antivirus software usually
detects malware by recognising its code
like recognising a face polymorphic malware
avoids this by changing how it looks
each time it spreads
the harmful part called the day lowest stays the same
but it is hidden in a different way every time
each version uses a new encryption key
and include extra useless code in its decryption body
to avoid desection because of this
it's hash the digital fingerprints changes every time
so antivirus program don't recognise it
polymorphic Malware changes its appearance
metamorphic Malware goes further
it through write its own code completely
even though the code may look different
it still does the same thing
instructions may change
names may change and extra lines may be added
but the results stays the same
that's what makes it dangerous
it's hard to detect but it always causes the same harm